Added documentation for composite blocks (#438)
jvalue/jayvee: apps/docs/docs/user/composite-blocks.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Composite Blocks

> Composite blocks are a way to create new blocktypes in Jayvee by combining the functionality of existing blocks and pipes. By relying on composite blocks instead of implementing more builtin blocks in a language interpreter Jayvee supports easy extension by users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composite blocks are a way to create new blocktypes in Jayvee by combining the functionality of existing blocks and pipes. By relying on composite blocks instead of implementing more builtin blocks in a language interpreter, Jayvee supports easy extension by users.
```

- all blocks that are used in the pipeline definition (either builtin or other composite blocks)

## Example
As an example, the common use-case of extracting a CSV file from a webserver using HTTP. With builtin blocks, a pipeline would start with a HttpExtractor source that downloads a file from the internet and outputs a binary file. This file must be interpreted as text (using a TextFileInterpreter) and finally as Sheet (using a CSVInterpreter). 

### Implementation with builtin blocks
```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A[HttpExtractor] --> B(TextFileInterpreter)
    B --> C(CSVInterpreter)
    C --> D(TableInterpreter)
    D --> E[SQLiteSink]
```

A pipeline with builtin blocks is very verbose:

```jayvee
pipeline CarsPipeline {
	CarsExtractor
        -> CarsTextFileInterpreter
	    -> CarsCSVInterpreter 
	   	-> CarsTableInterpreter
		-> CarsLoader;

	block CarsExtractor oftype HttpExtractor {
		url: "https://example.com/cars.csv";
	}

	block CarsTextFileInterpreter oftype TextFileInterpreter { }

	block CarsCSVInterpreter oftype CSVInterpreter {
		enclosing: '"';
	}
    // ... further block definitions
}
```

### Refactoring using composite blocks

> The common usecase of downloading a CSV file using HTTP can be refactored into a composite block. Note that we define all properties of the builtin blocks that are used as properties of the new CSVExtractor blocktype (but add fallback values). If some internal configuration is always the same we could also not expose it as property of the new blocktype.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The common use-case of downloading a CSV file using HTTP can be refactored into a composite block. Note that we define all properties of the builtin blocks that are used as properties of the new CSVExtractor blocktype (but add fallback values). If some internal configuration is always the same, we could also not expose it as a property of the new blocktype.
```
